present: steve, dave, lorna, eric, edward, alex

Updates
Steve: 

habitat and ncltn have a “memorandum of understanding.” Appear to be roughly 30 collaborative projects. 

Communit land trust of greater cleveland merged into something which is incorporated into a national org called “neighborworks.” org is already reaching out into counties other than cuyahoga.
  Could be cool to visit and contact about technical assistance or other experience.  
	Seems to be a clt based on encouraging homeownership across cleveland

map stuff seems more difficult to navigate than we first thought

: my updates are already agenda items

alex: 
steph meeting sucked --
dickie meeting was weird --
laura meeting yeilded cohhio
alex is talking to cole etc about local matters

Bylaws
name and purpose
	here we describe our purpose 
membership
	should folks outside of weinland park be able to be part of the clt? 
	Edward: I think we should have a geo region because we're trying to retain people
	eric: now there's a difference between lessee members and general members. Lessee members are defacto residents
	lorna: I don't think landlords should be part of the clt
	steveL but maybe if they live here too. If we're going to be reaching out to landlords we should try to define their involvement ahead of time
	edward: I'd prefer if there was, at least initially, a geographic restraint
	eric: maybe we should finish the whole review cuz there are some ways that these issues have been dealt with already
	all: ok

	membership requirements in model bylaws require a signed statement of support and payment of dues, either with cash or through labor 

general membership gives voting rights to changing bylaws, sale of land, and other decisions that require more than the board's oversight

membership meetings are about once per month and then there are elections and dues assessments that occur once per year

quorum is an important decision as well

status quo is to try for concensus and resort to majority 
director categories include lessee directors, member directors, and public representatives. 
Categories elect themselves and public reps are elected by directors
a separate vote will be taken for each category of the board. Double signed names lose eligibility for a second appointment after they're elected to one 
	eric: opens the door to common plurality problems and wedge candidates
low income representation: membership will at all times ensure that one third of the board will be composed of low income residents, residents of low income neighborhoods, or representatives of low-income advocacy organizations
	eric: opens the door to 
	eric: the removal process is also prohibitively complicated, I think. 
Meetings require notice and are open meetings. Should not be less than once every two months. Directors are up for automatic removal after missing three consecutive meetings. Prohibits absentee directors
executive sessions: mostly designed for labor contracts, real estate sales, disciplinary actions against employees, litigation preparation, etc. 
	eric: problems here, too
duties of the board: produce an annual written report, budget, supervising offices and committees, providing for the deposit of funds, paying and taking money, acquiring land, conveying the use of land, conveyance of improvements of land, repurchase of housing, developing the resources necessary to acquisition and maintenance of land, and some more that I missed
powers: appoint and discharge consultants, call meetings, borrow lend money, 
limitations: lots of decisions require membership involvement
officers: 
duties: 
interested person: 
conflict of interest policy
eric: maybe we could determine that board members cannot be members on other boards
selling land: 
preservation of affordability: housing may only be resold under a resale formula. Can it go to children? What is low-income? 
Ammendments, alterations, etc, all require 2/3 majority of membership and board

resale formulas overview
one says sellers get 25% of value built
seller captures a percentage of appraised value based on how long they've lived in the home
sample resale formula says seller gets all of the value they've paid for and that's all
and several others

steve: I don't know what we're doing if we allow folks to sell and profit from appraisal value. I would suggest indexing sale value to inflation and improvements/repairs
Edward: are we trying to combat poverty or retain residents who will build a neighborhood? Are we trying to give individuals a leg up and out of here? Are we trying to retain people in the place of displacement? 
Lorna: how does this all relate to landlords? How does it keep rents affordable?
Steve: if the primary goal is acquiring rental properties these questions are still somewhat irrelevant
all: ya pretty true 
eric: the clt is not designed to help people “out” of poverty in a geographic sense, at least. 
Edward: I prefer long term residents, but are renters going to be long-term? 
Eric; I don't think we avoid these questions if we talk about renting. They just become more complex
edward: are rents based on appraisal value of buildings? What else can we do? 
Steve: well we can charge blanket rents across all of our properties for renter formula. Do we need a rental formula? I think that might be more important for us to talk about now 
eric: I think it's hard to have a full dis about each of these talks now, how do we want to proceed. 
Lorna: I think we should start with the big questions like “are we going to operate as a landlord?”
all: good question
steve; how do we make our project appealing to broke homeowners
eric: the foreclosure rate is much lower for clt homes
lorna: I think sharing skills is a valuable resource to clt homes. Possibly governed as dues hours to the clt. 
Dave: do you see the role of the clt primarily as an org that owns the land or governs the properties. Being a landlord is hard work!
Lorna: I'm leaning towards not landlord
steve: maybe we hire someone who manages properties
eric: sometimes the labor is collectivized, within apartment blocks or otherwise
dave: well i've been a landlord and man it's nuts
steve: well what if it's rental properties were more like cooperative space. As in, members are part owners of the clt. 
Dave: wagenbrenner has a “lease option to buy” for their stand-alone homes. 
Alex: we could also “give” former tenants the rights of lessees, ruining their hope of being waited on by a maintenance company, but try to find other ways to build community by sharing skills. We could have a landscaping company or maintenance company internal to the clt instead of a property manager. 
Steve: we could make people owners of their apartments and offer lower lease rates for maintaining their properties more efficiently. 
Lorna: how do clts deal with folks who let their homes become dilapidated?
Eric: annual inspections and check ins with lessees, basically. 
Dave: when you get people who are open to sharing the risk with their neighbors, instead of bottoming out, it's sort of a self-selecting process because people that benefit from the community have the most to lose by leaving. 
Steve & lorna: it'd be great to share skills and also exchange comfort and familiarity with asking for help with problems. How to get from identifying a problem and asking a landlord to do it to learning to help each other. We built our neighbor a retaining wall and in exchange they let us use their yard to grow more fruit trees. 

CIVIC
steve: we could advertise there. Hey we're meeting at this time next week, etc. 
alex: let's say we use the civic meeting to build our supporters list
all: sounds good
dave: I'll be there 
lorna: I'll make an announcement 
alex: try to find a way to assess people's level or ype of interest with the sign up sheet

check ins
lorna: I asked my big questions already
steve: I think it's great that this is happening but long-term I'm more interested in being a member and facilitating community. 
Alex: 
edward: I'm a poor student. I'm not gonna read this stuff on my own, which I feel makes me a poor member of our group. I feel like we had a lot of traction today, as opposed to our last meeting. I think it would be great to have a study session. Lorna: corporations do it as a retreat
edward: I think if we had a better sense of a timeline. I feel overwhelmed when I think about long view. 

Work party

CLTs
what would we like to get out of our visit to CCLT
how to think about approaching existing land trusts

Co-Signers


TASKS 
map group programming party – lorna eric steve and edward tuesday at 4pm
fix dave's email – alex
send update to action committee – alex
announce clt supporters list at civic meeting – lorna
build supporters list – alex
reach out to cohhio – dave
Present "wedge" issues --Steve Lorna and eric
Alex-Reach out to contacts about previous experience with bylaws
Alex-Reach out to advisors/contacts regarding cosigners/funding environment of columbus

Meet with philanthropist on sunday – alex
NEXT MEETING 
Friday 6.30
Edward will call our contacts
