membership considerations:
displacement
income
students
transience 
stability
racial diversity
women in leadership positions
how to encourage diverse leadership
handiness
open to building community
urgency 


membership entrance/exit process


lorna: membership is tricky business. we’ve had conversations about who is eligible for membership. 


steven: I think all renters should be members 


lorna: who should be board members? we discussed people with personal investment in wpclt could be on the board even if they’re not tenants or lessees. perhaps there is a board job that meets twice a year and isn’t necessarily part of daily decisions. 


dave: I like the ⅔ membership rule for the board, but I understand that there  are some folks who could bring a lot to the table but might not want to lease from or sell their land to the clt


lorna: so we have lessees, board members, and who else? should the who else be written into bylaws or not? I like the notion of having a member training as well.  A member training would involve meetings with foods where folks learn about the clt concept and how to work within it. We need to be able to keep presence with folks that will extend the effective lifespan of the organization. 


steve: what’s in the training


alex: i like this idea but i dunno


dave: well we can say that it’d bring folks up to speed on our bylaws and also of our recent history so folks don’t trip over the same roadblocks that others have tripped over. 


Lorna: I also asked myself who I would hate to share membership with? 


steve: I don’t want people voting on any of this if they only represent the interest of an external area. 


lorna: you don’t want reps of orgs that are guided by the motives of outside institutions


alex: no, not really. 


lorna: what about absentee members? folks could be required to come to a certain number of meetings OR ELSE. 


weighted votes? hours for dues/? 


dave: people who are more involved in the clt will automatically hold more sway in conversation and decision making. Everyone can tell who is more and less involved i


eric: weight votes with fixed pool of weight or variable pool of weight


dave: intriguing but wary


eric: scale length of applicability of decision by percentage of agreement


dave: hampers people’s ability to make long-term plans


lorna: scaled duration may clutter meetings with controversial decisions


proposal: weekend bylaws meeting on the last weekend of July?


lorna: what’s unacceptable in a member?


alex: maybe talking about ‘bad faith’ is a useful way to proceed


dave: ability to recuse oneself is good


steve: should be a procedure for ‘bad faith’ handling


lorna: for the less severe breaches: ‘Do you still want to be a member?’


steve: maybe renters don’t have to be members


eric: I don’t really want a landlord/renter relationship based upon monetary exchange


alex: ‘bad faith’ when spending money without member approval. That could be pretty onerous


eric: stringency of ‘bad faith’ should scale with power and responsibility. should you be acting on your own behalf or on the organizations?


alex: retreat  may imply no internet or power. That’s different than what we’ve been doing. We’d have to prepare


foot research into wp rental market


lorna: I want to do that


steve: finding existing rental opportunities through whatever means possible. Ask people ‘How much are you paying?’


alex: pick berries, take note of abandoned properties, look them up on the auditor’s website


steve and lorna will do it. Maybe today?


what’s hard wired in bylaws and what is a procedure plus a seed


eric: if we want the org to last long and be adaptable I think it’s problematic to “hard code” a defined procedure for membership as our organization changes over time. It might ameliorate some problems of vanguardism if we more clearly define procedural considerations when it comes to membership


lorna: this approach would produce an org that grows with the times instead of staying the same


eric: right it’s possible to change the bylaws but there are considerations that it could be too difficult or too easy but instead we could decide to vote on a set of criteria that could change every year based on group composition. 


lorna: how should we determine what is in the bylaws. 


steve: or what other documents could we produce to supplement our bylaws? 


eric: addendum to the bylaws exhibit A “member selection procedure”. I think it would bring leaders and members back to our goals and procedures once yearly. 


alex: I like that idea


eric: let’s not interrupt our membership convo for the sake of this, let’s keep in mind that any given agreement deserves to be considered as either a part of the bylaws or an addendum thereto. 


all: cool.




tension between long and thin or short and wide in home subsidies


steve: possibility to distribute rents more equitably. distribute real estate variability across rents/mortgages. maybe not complete equalization, different segments


lorna: seems a regression toward the market to segment properties. maybe per bedrooms is okay


alex: to me, the key is that the price won’t go up, not upfront discounts. I don’t know enough about gov’t subsidies


steve: even without subsidies, this is a relevant issue. variable house prices, etc.


dave: HUD has big table of fair market rents. Renters can self-determine. Self-determination vs communalism


lorna: what if someone has a very low income and we only have relatively expensive properties available?


dave: also, low-income housing tax credits


lorna: is this in the bylaws or just an internal policy/document?


alex: maybe put expansion of clt as goal in bylaws






dave: lots of foundations or nonprofits like to see demographic composition of service projects. Our decision-making guides don’t have to be transparent, but our public composition and membership/clientele should be. 






next meeting: probably can’t happen in person. task-based submeetings instead. one of those tasks should be splitting up the bylaws into prepared facilitation segments
